<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="yes"?><rss version="2.0" xmlns:atom="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom"><channel><title>Eclipse SUMO - Developer Meetings on Eclipse SUMO - Simulation of Urban MObility</title><link>https://eclipse.dev/sumo/minutes/</link><description>Recent content in Eclipse SUMO - Developer Meetings on Eclipse SUMO - Simulation of Urban MObility</description><generator>Hugo</generator><language>en-us</language><atom:link href="https://eclipse.dev/sumo/minutes/index.xml" rel="self" type="application/rss+xml"/><item><title>SUMO Developer Meetings 2025</title><link>https://eclipse.dev/sumo/minutes/2025/</link><pubDate>Mon, 01 Jan 0001 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://eclipse.dev/sumo/minutes/2025/</guid><description>&lt;h1 id="2025-12-04"&gt;2025-12-04&lt;/h1&gt;
&lt;h2 id="attendees"&gt;Attendees&lt;/h2&gt;
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Angelo Banse (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Pablo Alvarez Lopez (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Michael Behrisch (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Jakob Erdmann (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Yun-Pang Flötteröd (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Robert Hilbrich (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Ronald Nippold (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Peter Wagner (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;h2 id="topics"&gt;Topics&lt;/h2&gt;
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Meeting on the 18th
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;will take place&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;visualizing TAZ labels
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;how to visualize sets of edges with a common label?&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;visualization discussions with Billy Charlton
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Angelo takes over&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;global building model
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;&lt;a href="https://tubvsig-so2sat-vm1.srv.mwn.de"&gt;https://tubvsig-so2sat-vm1.srv.mwn.de&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;&lt;a href="https://github.com/zhu-xlab/GlobalBuildingAtlas"&gt;https://github.com/zhu-xlab/GlobalBuildingAtlas&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;netedit interface
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;save all when saving neteditcfg?&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;no one uses neteditcfg ;-)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;h1 id="2025-11-20"&gt;2025-11-20&lt;/h1&gt;
&lt;h2 id="attendees-1"&gt;Attendees&lt;/h2&gt;
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Angelo Banse (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Pablo Alvarez Lopez (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Michael Behrisch (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Jakob Erdmann (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Yun-Pang Flötteröd (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;h2 id="topics-1"&gt;Topics&lt;/h2&gt;
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;new Fox-Toolkit version&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;new Visual Studio version with prominent Co-Pilot&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;API-Key available for academic cloud
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;GPT-OSS available&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;setup for the mac
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;GUI tests&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Release feedback
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;small regression with invalid error message in duarouter&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;netedit problem with additional files&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;check whether we can check at least compilation success before a commit is accepted -&amp;gt; Micha
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;minimal effort&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Issues&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;h1 id="2025-10-23"&gt;2025-10-23&lt;/h1&gt;
&lt;h2 id="attendees-2"&gt;Attendees&lt;/h2&gt;
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Angelo Banse (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Pablo Alvarez Lopez (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Michael Behrisch (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Yun-Pang Flötteröd (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Ronald Nippold (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;h2 id="topics-2"&gt;Topics&lt;/h2&gt;
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;protocol still needs to be linked from the main site (Angelo)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Zoom meeting needs co-hosts (Micha)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;offline docs currently require network link&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;openlayers should be substituted locally&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Font size on Gnome? Anton Gladky did a patch for the debian package, Ronald had the opposite experience (fonts too large by default)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Packaging strange dependencies in Fedora RPM
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Packaging might be abandoned we rather recommend pip or flatpak&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Release moved to 6.11.
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;open issues to be discussed earlier because Jakob / Angelo are in a meeting on the 6th&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;h1 id="2025-10-09"&gt;2025-10-09&lt;/h1&gt;
&lt;h2 id="attendees-3"&gt;Attendees&lt;/h2&gt;
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Pablo Alvarez Lopez (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Michael Behrisch (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Yun-Pang Flötteröd (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Robert Hilbrich (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Ronald Nippold (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Peter Wagner (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;h2 id="topics-3"&gt;Topics&lt;/h2&gt;
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;running protocol instead of separate files
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;link is missing&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Meso - Parallelization as technology transfer idea&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;SUMO conference offer has been improved&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;h2 id="issues"&gt;Issues&lt;/h2&gt;
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;MacOS build needs doc for Parquet&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;h1 id="2025-09-23"&gt;2025-09-23&lt;/h1&gt;
&lt;h2 id="attendees-4"&gt;Attendees&lt;/h2&gt;
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Pablo Alvarez Lopez (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Michael Behrisch (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Jakob Erdmann (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Ronald Nippold (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Peter Wagner (DLR)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;h2 id="topics-4"&gt;Topics&lt;/h2&gt;
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;Release 1.25 moved to 27th of October (holidays)&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;we have 102 different labels which might not all be useful
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;we review them on demand&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;max-num-vehicles / max-num-persons
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;SUMO user wanted to use this type specific, we do not see the need&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;h2 id="issues-1"&gt;Issues&lt;/h2&gt;
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;SUMO has now routing types to define vehicle type / class specific preferences for certain edges
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;&lt;a href="https://sumo.dlr.de/docs/Simulation/Routing.html#routing_by_travel_time_and_routingtype"&gt;https://sumo.dlr.de/docs/Simulation/Routing.html#routing_by_travel_time_and_routingtype&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;netedit support is open&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;automated routing can now be avoided if the improvement is below a threshold
&lt;ul&gt;
&lt;li&gt;routing performnace might also benefit -&amp;gt; Micha opens an issue&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;
&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;li&gt;we have now parsable metadata&lt;/li&gt;
&lt;/ul&gt;</description></item><item><title>SUMO Developer Meetings 2026</title><link>https://eclipse.dev/sumo/minutes/2026/</link><pubDate>Mon, 01 Jan 0001 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://eclipse.dev/sumo/minutes/2026/</guid><description>&lt;h1 id="2026-01-15"&gt;2026-01-15&lt;/h1&gt;
&lt;!-- ## Attendees

- Pablo Alvarez Lopez (DLR)
- Angelo Banse (DLR)
- Michael Behrisch (DLR)
- Jakob Erdmann (DLR)
- Yun-Pang Flötteröd (DLR)
- Robert Hilbrich (DLR)
- Ronald Nippold (DLR)
- Peter Wagner (DLR)

## Topics

 --&gt;</description></item></channel></rss>