---
title: "SUMO User Conference 2017"
subtitle: "Towards Simulation for Autonomous Mobility"
conferenceDate: "May 8-10"
conferenceLocation: "Berlin-Adlershof, Germany"
description : "Get in touch with our international user community"
layout: "single"
image: "conference_2017.jpg"
conference-page: true
draft: false
---

<div class="btn-group" style="margin-bottom:40px;">
  <a href="https://www.dlr.de/ts/en/DownloadCount.aspx?raid=381026&docid=10872&rn=0130dfed-c5cc-4631-97dc-7fa360122297" class="btn btn-info btn-sm btn-padding"><i class="fas fa-file-download"></i> SUMO 2017 Proceedings (21.07 MB)</a>
  <a href="https://www.dlr.de/ts/en/DownloadCount.aspx?raid=417630&docid=11276&rn=ece94a40-92ca-49ad-b54b-ec5b96ce02e9" class="btn btn-info btn-sm btn-padding"><i class="fas fa-file-download"></i> SUMO 2017 Flyer (5.06 MB)</a>
</div>

# Introduction
This year, the SUMO User Conference focused on traffic simulation and simulator coupling for autonomous mobility. It was attended by more than 70 international participants from industry and academia. In addition to the joint keynote given by Johan Magnusson and Christer Lindström from 4Dialog AB, the conference program allowed for intensive discussions on recent research advancements and developments in SUMO. A highlight was the poster session with live demos of traffic simulators from rfPro and TESIS DYNAware both of which used SUMO internally. The program was rounded off by a tutorial, numerous interesting and engaging discussions on the side and the SUMO Café, which facilitated an exchange of experiences among the SUMO community.

The conference was a great success! So many people have contributed in many ways to turn this event into a well-organized meeting with very interesting presentations and lively discussions.

All those who contributed to the SUMO User Conference 2017:   
Thank you for your excellent work!

# Conference Information
Traffic simulations are of immense importance for researchers as well as practitioners in the field of transportation. SUMO has been available since 2001 and provides a wide range of traffic planning and simulation applications. SUMO consists of a suite of tools covering road network imports and enrichment, demand generation and assignment and a state-of-the-art microscopic traffic simulation capable to simulate private and public transport modes, as well as person-based trip chains. Being open source, SUMO is ready to implement new behavioral models or to control the simulation remotely using various programming environments. These and other features make SUMO one of the most often used open source traffic simulations with a large and international user community.

# Contact
Please contact the conference team via mail at [sumo-conference@dlr.de](mailto:sumo-conference@dlr.de)   
You can find more information about SUMO at <https://sumo.dlr.de>