---
title: "SUMO Developer Meetings 2025"
draft: false
---

# 2025-09-23

## Attendees

- Pablo Alvarez Lopez (DLR)
- Michael Behrisch (DLR)
- Jakob Erdmann (DLR)
- Ronald Nippold (DLR)
- Peter Wagner (DLR)

## Topics

- Release 1.25 moved to 27th of October (holidays)
- we have 102 different labels which might not all be useful
  - we review them on demand
- max-num-vehicles / max-num-persons
  - SUMO user wanted to use this type specific, we do not see the need

## Issues

- SUMO has now routing types to define vehicle type / class specific preferences for certain edges
  - https://sumo.dlr.de/docs/Simulation/Routing.html#routing_by_travel_time_and_routingtype
  - netedit support is open
- automated routing can now be avoided if the improvement is below a threshold
  - routing performnace might also benefit -> Micha opens an issue
- we have now parsable metadata



# 2025-10-09

## Attendees

- Pablo Alvarez Lopez (DLR)
- Michael Behrisch (DLR)
- Yun-Pang Flötteröd (DLR)
- Robert Hilbrich (DLR)
- Ronald Nippold (DLR)
- Peter Wagner (DLR)

## Topics

- running protocol instead of separate files
  - link is missing
- Meso - Parallelization as technology transfer idea
- SUMO conference offer has been improved

## Issues
- MacOS build needs doc for Parquet



# 2025-10-23

## Attendees

- Angelo Banse (DLR)
- Pablo Alvarez Lopez (DLR)
- Michael Behrisch (DLR)
- Yun-Pang Flötteröd (DLR)
- Ronald Nippold (DLR)

## Topics

- protocol still needs to be linked from the main site (Angelo)
- Zoom meeting needs co-hosts (Micha)
- offline docs currently require network link
- openlayers should be substituted locally
- Font size on Gnome? Anton Gladky did a patch for the debian package, Ronald had the opposite experience (fonts too large by default)
- Packaging strange dependencies in Fedora RPM
  - Packaging might be abandoned we rather recommmend pip or flatpak
- Release moved to 6.11.
  - open issues to be discussed earlier because Jakob / Angelo are in a meeting on the 6th
